first of all guys let's cover the two
most important bios tweaks which are
going to help you out so much with
getting way lower system latency first
of all let's talk about int Cate support
or AMD cstate control I'm going to
explain this like this there are
multiple C States on your CPU 0 1 and
two in which the CPU is either fully
active partially in idle which is
basically a power savings mode or in
sleep status where it's like on ultra
power saving mode and the problem is
especially on the ultra power saving
mode it needs very long to be fully
active again so why is C State supports
so bad first of all it gives you
additional wake up latency as I just
mentioned if you're maybe in a power
savings mode and you need more CPU power
it's going to need some time until the
CPU is again fully active interrupt
handling issues because of course if
your CPU is partially even an idle it
won't handle interrupts as good and of
course also the transition between C
states can cause additional latency as
well so why you want to disable it of
course reduce wake up latency more
consistent performance without variables
through different CPU States and more
stability all how do you find this make
sure that you put your bios first of all
into advanced mode guys if you have it
on the simple one which most bioses have
you won't find it you have to put it
into advance and then you should see
something like Advanced CPU settings you
can see where I found it guys and then
just simply scroll all the way down this
list until you can find cstate support
make sure that it's disabled but then
afterwards guys keep in mind
temperatures might be a little bit
higher now on your CPU because the
consumption is higher so therefore if
temperatures are issue for your PC you
should keep an eye out for that next up
we also have Intel Speed Shift
technology or AMD cool and quiet they
both basically do the same thing they
control cor speeds on the needed power
which the PC needs at the moment but the
problem is cost speed fluctuation can
cause additional latency so you actually
want to disable it the CPO will not only
run at its maximum clock speed without D
clocking but you're also ensuring more
consistent performance so therefore
disable both of these as well you find
them in the completely same menu for me
it was like the fourth or fifth option I
think from the top and there I also just
made sure to disable it next upep guys
also super important your XMP profile
many people are missing out on 20 to 25%
of ram speed performance when you don't
use the best XMP profile even though
it's just Nan seconds your cast latency
is a lot higher which you don't want for
games so make sure to Google your REM
specifically do some research most of
the time there's even some core data on
the right side exactly telling you which
Ram model you have what brand it is from
so that you can select the right mode
just simply make sure to Google your
exact RAM and Google like what's the
best XMP profile for it and most of the
time you will already find some info
about it and your RAM is just simply
going to run way more stable you're
going to have the least amount of cast
latency and also bandwidth bandwidth is
not as important for gaming it's more
for like video editing and all of that
stuff I see so many people will have as
an example like 3,000 MHz RAM and it's
only running at 2,400 they're missing
out on like 20 to 25% of their Ram
performance just because they're too
lazy to set it up properly and
especially pre-ol PCS have that problem
guys so therefore check that once you
disabled both of these settings and set
up the red XMP profile these are already
some of the core steps to actually tweak
your bios and get the best performance
out of your CPU and PC first of all
please go in your test manager under
startup and make sure to disable as many
programs as you can guys everything
which you don't need whenever your PC is
launching fully disable it and now I'm
about to show you how we can actually
reduce the amount of processes under our
CPU with disabling services on our
Windows PC what we're going to need for
this is the link in the video
description where you can find the
ultimate Windows utility from Chris
Titus just simply click here and copy
this comment go to your window search
bar type in that pow shell until you can
find Windows poell right click onto it
and run it as administrator once it's
running you're going to paste in the
following comand you don't have to
download anything guys the tool is going
to work here automatically through the
partial sometimes it requires extra
permission so you have to type in here
why for yes but besides that this is how
the tool looks like and we want to go
over to tweaks and then you can see
desktop laptop and minimal all of these
have completely different settings guys
but since you're on desktop PC most
likely you're going to select desktop
always create a restore point guys
before you apply any sort of tweaks make
sure this one is checked the next up we
also have customized own oan shut up
tweaks which is really handy in this
tool already since it basically disables
all of the privacy settings which allow
Microsoft to collect data of your PC so
this is already built into this tool
with run own o shutup and the small
check here it's going to disable all of
these as well additionally and all you
got to do is Click under run tweaks once
it's done with everything guys you just
simply have to close it and restart your
PC and check again the next time for
your processes so in this next step now
guys we're going to go into our Windows
search bar and then we have Services
right click run it as administrator guys
and in here now is a list with all of
these Services which you can f disabled
on your Windows PC I'm not going to go
through every single one of them so
therefore make sure to copy everything
remember before you apply any sort of
tweaks on the internet always create a
restart point in the midst steps
[Music]
the Xbox app you maybe might need if
you're trying to play Minecraft on your
PC I actually personally had this issue
of course all of these Xbox services are
super Hardware demanding so if you only
play games like Counter Strike valerin
fortnite and you don't need any sort of
Microsoft Services make sure to disable
these as well then some pretty basic
stuff guys under installed applications
just simply go through this whole entire
list and make sure to uninstall
everything which you don't need on your
PC something like quick assist as an
example here for me personally
everything which I don't utilize is
already uninstalled so therefore yeah
I'm already chilling here then once
again you can go back and quickly check
your under startup if everything is
disabled which you usually don't need
for me it's only my go XLR and audio
basically the rest is fully deactivated
also another quick thing guys is adjust
the appearance and performance of
Windows this one is pretty basic and
pretty known you can just simply put it
under adjust for best performance if
you're really struggling on your PC for
me I kind of have a custom version you
now where I show thumbnails instead of
icons show translucent selection show
Windows content while dragging smooth
edges on screen fonts and use drop
Shadows of course this one here is
pretty hardw demanding but yeah I kind
of like how my PC looks like this then
we're going to continue now here with un
advance and then virtual memory guys
this one is also really important make
sure to uncheck automatically manage
paging file size for all drives and then
you can see custom size and once we now
in here guys we have first of all
initial size in embit and maximum size
and nbit what you want to do go into the
test manager go into performance click
under your memory for me you can see
that I'm currently running actually 48
gigs of RAM so what you want to do is
bring out your calculator app type in
there 48 *
1,24 since 1 gig of RAM is actually 1,24
mbit and then you can see guys it's 49,1
152 so therefore for initial size
4,152 if as an example you have 8 gigs
of RAM you take 8 *
1,24 and then you have
8,192 and now for the maximum size the
only thing which you have to do is take
your total system memory RAM and double
it time 2 so for me it would be 98,0 304
so I'm just going to put it in here and
then I already set it up properly click
under set this is a specially really
good if you're on a PC with maybe a
lower amount of ram something like 4 to
8 gigs of RAM that's going to work
perfectly fine because on virtual memory
your PC can kind of dump off files when
the main memory is overwhelmed or better
said when you use very Ram hungry
applications on your PC just let me
click under okay you can see now that we
actually have to reset our PC in order
to change this so therefore just let me
do this here real quick so guys for this
next step we're going to need a tool
which is called Hardware info you can
get it as well from the link in the
video description just simply go for the
installation process here real quick go
next accept and install I already have
it on my PC so I just launched it here
click on start let it real quick analyze
your whole entire system guys and this
tweak is super important if you want to
go for super low input delay with your
mouse and keyboard you can see now in
this tool we can basically see
everything what is going on on our PC
click on the bus go into the PCI bus and
now guys there are two different
versions one of them is for AMD one is
for Intel first of all what you got to
do is open up all of these small arrows
here and make sure that you find all of
the USB controllers which are available
on your motherboard me it's right now
here the MD b550 chipset USB controller
but for AMD actually guys you don't want
to use the motherboard one you want to
use the one which is called exactly as
your CPU generation you can see it's
most of the time like a weird name since
I'm running here ryzen 7 5800 X on this
PC where I'll show you this right now
and then underneath we have the USB Root
Hub this is the main USB root hop and
this is exactly where here under Port 1
and two and this is now exactly where
here under Port 1 and two I want to have
my mouse and keyboard plugged in as you
can see my Razor Mouse is already
plugged in here since I record this here
right now real quick on the mdpc guys I
haven't plugged in my keyboard in right
one I just want to showcase you port one
and two are theoretically the ones and
this you can only figure out through
trying out different USB ports on the
back side of your PC as mentioned under
AMD it is the USB controller which is
called exactly as your CPU generation
and then the main USB rotub there you
want to put in exactly on M and keyboard
on Intel it's way easier guys that's
just simply called Intel USB controller
and there you have directly the first
USB rotub and there you got to plug it
in now next up guys what I want to show
you is usually if you check your test
maner you're probably going to have a
bunch of Nvidia applications here
running in the background for me
personally that's not the case because I
actually manually deep loaded my Nvidia
driver there's so many unne tools which
usually get installed through gForce
experience or the Nvidia app like AI
voice Shadow play for recordings and all
of that stuff I anyways use OBS so I
don't really care about it there are so
many unnecessarily tools which get
installed with all we need guys is a
tool called Envy clean style the link to
it is as well in the video description
this is how the tool looks then we're
just simply going to open it up go here
under yes and then you can see we
basically can select you now from a
manual list of all all of the drivers
which are avable let's say we want to go
for the latest one just simply make sure
that it says DCH behind it guys that
means that's basically ready to go then
we going to go into next and then you
can see only display drivers is actually
checked even under recommended we only
have physics X and HD audio via HDMI
which I personally don't need since I
don't plug my PC on a TV or maybe a
monitor with speakers and all of this
stuff here virtual audio telary Shadow
play gForce experience Shield streaming
service never used this in my life why
is this getting pre-installed on Nvidia
they're just trying to give you all of
their services to maybe bring you to
maybe buy some stuff or whatever so
therefore only make sure these two are
actually checked and click on next and
now you just simply want to follow all
of my settings disable install Elementry
and advertising perform clean
installation very important if you have
a previous driver already pre-installed
so therefore don't be worried no you
don't have to uninstall it previously
manually disable multiplay and overlay
disable enzel Show expert Twix disable
driver telary disable Nvidia HD audio
again don't need it enable the MSI mode
guys this the same like MSI utility mode
we free just so me make sure to put it
under high as well this is basically
improving the communication time between
your CPU and GP resulting in way better
performance while gaming then disable
this mode here as well this one is super
old guys from literally like the early
2000s it basically was to prevent you
from creating copies of movies or some
stuff like that and next up we're going
to click on the next wait just simply a
few seconds for it to get finished here
and now all you got to do is click on
install and then all you got to do is go
for the normal installation process just
simply click on the next next and all of
that stuff guys and you get going to
have a fully debled driver but don't be
worried you can still access all of
these settings because the Nvidia
control panel is still pre-installed and
of course guys the most important part
is as well your ping this is why you see
fncs winners like Maro Asian jef and
many more Pros use J up booster the best
part is with my link in description you
can actually try it out for absolutely
free guys J booster is going to look for
the best DNS server in your near always
making sure that you have the lowest and
most stable ping even if you already
have really good ping guys it's still
worth it because it's going to make it
way more system the jff booster is going
to actively in the background search for
the best DNS servers always making sure
that you have the best connection to
fortnite as mentioned check it out for
absolutely free with the link in the
description guys next up guys we're
going to utilize the Nvidia profile
inspector link to it as well in the
video description just simply type in
exactly the game you want to optimize it
for or you can keep it as well on a
global profile and first of all let's
take a look at sync and refresh guys
here it's super important that we
basically disable any sort of sync
technology if you don't utilize it
something like g-sync on off disallow
Force off off off off off vertical sync
as well on Force off guys this really
only makes sense if you're maybe on 60
75 HZ monitors besides that force it off
next up guys we're going to take a look
at maximum pre-rendered frames and here
it's super important actually for me
that I keep it on one and here I'm going
to give you an example if you have your
pre-rendered frames kept to one this is
going to result in less cues of your CPU
basically asking your GPU for the next
frame which can result in lower input
delay on the other hand this will
decrease your performance a little bit
your frames are going to go down if you
have any modern system as of right now
let's i' say like a pretty decent ryzen
5 ryzen 7 and a decent gaming GPU this
should not be an issue especially in
fast-paced games guys this is making a
huge difference and for me personally
it's worth it to trade off a little bit
of my smoothness for very low input
delay but if your CPU is bottlenecking
for whatever reason or your PC isn't the
fastest just simply keep it un use 3 the
application setting then preferred
refresh rate I have as well here on
highest the wable of course next up on
analizing guys analizing FXAA enabled
you're going to keep on off I'm going to
put both of them actually on off because
they can introduce blur bless which we
actually don't want guys we want to have
just simply sharp edges since both of
these modes here actually can introduce
blurriness so that's I have them turn
off gamma correction I leave on on this
is basically just brightness settings
the same as well with line gamma which
is going to most likely going to get the
default gamma setting off your Windows
PC next up transparency multi sampling
and super sampling you want to have
actually put on disabled as well for the
best performance guys we don't want any
filters to go over a game to maybe make
the visuals a little bit better
especially super sampling can really
help you with visual they could maybe
figure out like a sweet spot for you
something like four times or two times I
would say so that you have pretty good
visuals but still like not the most
demanding one for your performance but
for me I just simply play com so I keep
it on off now the msaa mode you're going
to leave on application controlled
because most of the time the in-game
settings of the game which you actually
play are the best so therefore if you
want to utilize any of these modes just
simply set them up in the game you're
specifically playing with that said you
can copy all of my settings here so next
up guys on the texture filtering anti
trffic filter optimization you actually
want to keep on this is a way more
Hardware friendly way of basically
making images sharper than having it on
off so therefore you want to enable it
and Sample optimization is going to make
sure that this mode is going to be even
lower quality or better said even more
Hardware friendly so therefore you want
to have both of these enabled it's
basically making sure to reduce the
quality of this mode even further
resulting in even better performance so
both of these should be turned on once
we got that leave your anti Tropic
filtering mode on application controlled
you want to set it up in the game itself
then prevent anistropic filtering you
want to keep on off LOD bias you want to
keep on allow texture filtering quot on
of course high performance guys this is
going to of course again decrease the
image quality but give us way better
performance and on top of that texture
filtering Tru the optimization you want
to keep on on as well because TR
optimization is again going to support
the downscaling of images resulting in
even better performance so this one
again goes in hand with this one here so
you want to have both of them enabled or
basically this one high performance and
this one turned on then you just simply
going to apply these changes close the
tool and play the game which you want to
play and enjoy having way better
performance if this whole guide was
helpful guys I would highly appreciate
the sub and make sure to check out the
video right now on screen where I show
you how to fully optimize your network
adapter for way lower ping and also how
you can use a custom gaming OS like
Atlas OS in order to reduce your
processes and make your windows a lot
snappier